README.md, before:

# State machines for Laravel Eloquent models

[![Latest Version on Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/bjuppa/eloquent-state-machine.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/bjuppa/eloquent-state-machine)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/bjuppa/eloquent-state-machine/master.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/bjuppa/eloquent-state-machine)
[![Quality Score](https://img.shields.io/scrutinizer/g/bjuppa/eloquent-state-machine.svg?style=flat-square)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/bjuppa/eloquent-state-machine)
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/bjuppa/eloquent-state-machine.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/bjuppa/eloquent-state-machine)

This package allows you to treat a Laravel Eloquent model and its relationships as
[extended state](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UML_state_machine#Extended_states)
in a [hierarchical state machine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UML_state_machine#Hierarchically_nested_states).

The philosophy that sets this package apart from most other state machine implementations is that
behavior is declared **in code** in *states* and *events*, and the *model* itself determines the current state.
There is no overall configuration of the state machine's *graph*.
The current state handles the current event and *transitions* the model into another state.

- Every state and event is represented by a PHP class.
- Each state declares the *superstate* (*composite* or *root*) it belongs too.
- Events are dispatched through the model to the current state.
- Event handling happens in database transactions with pessimistic row-locks.
- The current state evaluates the incoming event with *guards* and initiates a *transition* to another (named) state.
- States have *entry* and *exit* actions and events have *actions* that manipulate the model during a *transition*.
- Any anomalies in events or transitions throws exceptions, triggering transaction rollback.

## Installation

You can install the package via composer:

```bash
composer require bjuppa/eloquent-state-machine
```

## Usage

Start by drawing a *statechart* for your state machine, without it you will probably miss some state, transition, event
or action.

**Everything** related to a specific state in the chart is coded directly into distinct methods of that state's
PHP class.

### Security

If you discover any security related issues, please email nilsved@gmail.com instead of using the issue tracker.

## Credits

- [Björn Nilsved](https://github.com/bjuppa)
- [All Contributors](../../contributors)

## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.

Commit message:

Document support for row-level locking

README.md, after:

# State machines for Laravel Eloquent models

[![Latest Version on Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/bjuppa/eloquent-state-machine.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/bjuppa/eloquent-state-machine)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/bjuppa/eloquent-state-machine/master.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/bjuppa/eloquent-state-machine)
[![Quality Score](https://img.shields.io/scrutinizer/g/bjuppa/eloquent-state-machine.svg?style=flat-square)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/bjuppa/eloquent-state-machine)
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/bjuppa/eloquent-state-machine.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/bjuppa/eloquent-state-machine)

This package allows you to treat a Laravel Eloquent model and its relationships as
[extended state](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UML_state_machine#Extended_states)
in a [hierarchical state machine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UML_state_machine#Hierarchically_nested_states).

The philosophy that sets this package apart from most other state machine implementations is that
behavior is declared **in code** in *states* and *events*, and the *model* itself determines the current state.
There is no overall configuration of the state machine's *graph*.
The current state handles the current event and *transitions* the model into another state.

- Every state and event is represented by a PHP class.
- Each state declares the *superstate* (*composite* or *root*) it belongs too.
- Events are dispatched through the model to the current state.
- Event handling happens in database transactions with pessimistic row-locks.
- The current state evaluates the incoming event with *guards* and initiates a *transition* to another (named) state.
- States have *entry* and *exit* actions and events have *actions* that manipulate the model during a *transition*.
- Any anomalies in events or transitions throws exceptions, triggering transaction rollback.

## Requirements

Row-level locking is only supported in MySQL / MariaDB and PostgreSQL.

## Installation

You can install the package via composer:

```bash
composer require bjuppa/eloquent-state-machine
```

## Usage

Start by drawing a *statechart* for your state machine, without it you will probably miss some state, transition, event
or action.

**Everything** related to a specific state in the chart is coded directly into distinct methods of that state's
PHP class.

### Security

If you discover any security related issues, please email nilsved@gmail.com instead of using the issue tracker.

## Credits

- [Björn Nilsved](https://github.com/bjuppa)
- [All Contributors](../../contributors)

## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.
